# CST116-Lab3
Oregon Institute of Technology
CST 116 Computer Concepts & Problem Solving
Lab #3: Math, Compound Operators, Switch


CST116
Module 3: Lab 3
4a.2 Mathematical Operations


What is stored in the variable “a” after each statement? Assume that a is “int.”
1. a = 5 + 10 * 2;
2. a = (5 + 10) * 2;
3. a = 5;
4. a = a + (5 + 10) * 2;
5. a = 10 % 2;
6. a = 10 % 3;
7. a = 5 + 10 * 2;


Submit: value for “a” for each statement.
3 pts


4b Debugging, reading numbers


1. Go to learnbydoingbooks.com
2. Select STUDENT RESOURCES
3. Download Chapter 05.zip
4. Load the Chapter 5 Debug.cpp code
5. Follow the instructions in the top of the code.


Submit: corrected code & run


1. Load the PE 5_1.cpp code.
2. Fix, compile, build and execute the code.


Submit: corrected code & run


Using the full development process (pseudocode, code, documenting, debugging, testing), write a program that accepts as input the radius and height of a cylinder. From this input, calculate the volume of the cylinder.


Be sure to complete all parts of the development process and that your output is self-documenting and correct.


30 pts
Submit: full development process


5a Compound operators
Convert each of the following statement so they use either the compound assignment operators or the increment and decrement operators. Assume that a, b and c are ints.


1. a = 25 + a;
2. b = b * a * 2;
3. b = 1 + b;
4. c = c % 5;
5. b = b / a;


Submit: modified statements
Assuming the following statements:
    int int_exp1 = 0, int_exp2 = 1;
    char char_exp = 'B';


Correct each of the following so that they are valid conditions:
1.     int_exp1 => int_exp2
2.     int_exp1 = int_exp2
3.     int_exp1 =! int_exp2
4.     char_exp == "A"
5.     int_exp1 = char_exp
6.     int_exp1 < 2 && > -10
Submit: corrected conditions
Write a program to determine the level of membership for a local credit union.
There are 4 levels: 
* Platinum - $25,000 or more, two different types of accounts
* Gold - less than $25,000 but more than $10,000 AND 2 different types of accounts
* Silver - more than $10,000 but only 1 type of account
* Copper - everyone else.


Prompt for the amount of money (number) AND a character (char) that describes what types of accounts they have (1 or 2).
For output, display the membership level.


Submit: full development process
15 pts


5b Switch Statement
Assuming the following code fragment:
    short guess;
 
    cout << "Enter a number between 0 and 4:";
    cin >> guess;
 
    switch (guess)
    {
    case 0:
        cout << "Zero" << endl;
        break;
    case 1:
        cout << "One" << endl;
    case 2:
        cout << "Two" << endl;
    case 3:
        cout << "Three" << endl;
    case 4:
        cout << "Four" << endl;
        break;


What is the output generated by the above program when the following inputs are provided? Try it first and then prove your results by actually running the code fragment.


1. 0
2. -1
3. 4
4. 2
5. 1


Submit: code & run
10 pts
Total: 58 pts
